# Introduction

This book is an attempt to provide an approachable guide to [functional programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming) in Scala. It makes an assumption that you have zero previous experience with functional programming or Scala, however it does assume that you are comfortable programming in at least one other language \(e.g. Javascript, C\#, Java, Ruby etc\) and have a fair understanding of [object orientated programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). You may think this later assumption a bit strange as this is a book on functional programming, but you will soon see that the two are not mutually exclusive.

Why another book on FP and Scala? Sure, there are a great many resources out there on the web and in print, but my general experience was that many of them get complicated very quickly. This is a bit unfortunate as there is already a general sense amongst developers that functional programming is very complicated and\/or requires a degree in mathematics. I hope to show that neither of these assumptions are true by introducing each concept in a accessible and iterative fashion. We will solidify our knowledge via exercises, building your intuition of each concept before we eventually converge them into more complex applications. This means that we may not always be using "best practices" or the most optimal techniques, but we shall sacrifice this in trade for content that can be easily consumed and reasoned about. Once we have established our foundation, we will move onto more advanced topics and introduce some of the syntactic sugar niceties of Scala.

I should also note that whilst Scala is being taught alongside the functional programming paradigm, we will not be covering the language in an exhaustive manner. Only the parts of the language which are friendly to the ideas that we are presenting within this book shall be introduced. _Key word: introduced_. Should you wish to gain a deeper understanding of the language then you can do no better than purchase _[Programming in Scala, Third Edition](http://www.artima.com/shop/programming_in_scala_3ed)_, a book co-authored by the creator of Scala; Martin Odersky.

## Acknowledgements

I owe a lot of my inspiration for creating this book to [Brian Lonsdorf](https://twitter.com/drboolean). It was his amazing title, _[Professor Frisby's Mostly Adequate Guide to Functional Programming](https://drboolean.gitbooks.io/mostly-adequate-guide/content/)_, that made FP click for me.  Although I am not as eloquent or entertaining as this gem of a author, I hope that this book carries some of the same spirit that Brian endowed in his own. I cannot recommend enough that you read his book to further deepen your understanding of FP.

